Title: Jottings from the Gathering - Scratch 2018
Date: 2018-08-01
Category: Blog
Tags: notes
Author: Jorge Garcia
Summary: Late July 2018, I got a chance to travel to Boston/Cambridge to attend the Scratch Conference. This is my second time attending the conference, the last time I visited, I had no experience with Scratch and was unaware of its community. In that first visit, my goal was to learn about the tool and how I could bring back what I learned to help the circulation of Finch Robots through the Chicago Public Library. Since then I have used Scratch to teach adults, teens, and children alike – the basics of programming and I usually include the Finch in those workshops. In almost every outreach activity I do with the library, the Finch robots are there with me. I have three main ways I like to showcase using the Finch; controlling the Finch, reading data from the Finch, and using the Finch as an input device. In usual fashion, I brought the Finch along with me to Scratch Conference 2018 to have some fun during my off time. I instead found a new gadget that has absorbed me since I arrived at the airport to return to Chicago, the BBC micro:bit. Along with the new bot, I made new friends and connections that will propel my purpose in using Scratch for years to come.
HeaderImage:
HeaderImageCaption: 

Late July 2018, I got a chance to travel to Boston/Cambridge to attend the Scratch Conference. This is my second time attending the conference, the last time I visited, I had no experience with Scratch and was unaware of its community. In that first visit, my goal was to learn about the tool and how I could bring back what I learned to help the circulation of Finch Robots through the Chicago Public Library. Since then I have used Scratch to teach adults, teens, and children alike - the basics of programming and I usually include the Finch in those workshops. In almost every outreach activity I do with the library, the Finch robots are there with me. I have three main ways I like to showcase using the Finch; controlling the Finch, reading data from the Finch, and using the Finch as an input device. In usual fashion, I brought the Finch along with me to Scratch Conference 2018 to have some fun during my off time. I instead found a new gadget that has absorbed me since I arrived at the airport to return to Chicago, the BBC micro:bit.

Along with the new bot, I made new friends and connections that will propel my purpose in using Scratch for years to come.

####Getting there

There was no way I was falling asleep the night before, I usually don't sleep early so how could I before a trip. Not trusting in myself to wake up in time, I took an Uber to the airport around midnight and attempted to sleep in the lobby. My flight was for 6am I was painfully able to nod off for two hours before I woke up freezing. Waking up, I passed by a Starbucks shop that was set to open in 20 minutes but they informed me of another one straight ahead that was 24 hours. What they didn't mention is that the queue was extremely long since it was the only one open in the airport. I happily walked back and waited for the next 15 minutes until they were ready and picked up a coffee and a blueberry scone. The flight was smooth thanks to the first-class voucher that was used, thank you CPL Foundation!

On arrival, I opted out of ride-share services and took a shuttle to Red Line at the South Station. Thankfully the hotel allowed me to check in early and I was able to get some rest. I had a goal in mind for the day, There was an opening ceremony at 6pm and I wanted to squeeze in a bike ride before that. I remained glued to the bed and napped for a bit. I woke up, showered and purchased a Blue Bike pass. Last time I was here it was Hubway and the rides were limited to 30 minute check-ins like at home and there was a $200 credit hold. This time it was much easier and the 2 hour check-in was just what I needed. I hoped up rode to the dock furthest west and rode on. I could feel how tired I was, I can usually ride these heavy bikes for hours at a time at home but I was peddling much slower this time. Still I had a wonderful ride down the  Minuteman Bikeway where I came across heavy rain. I continued on for a while and began my retreat at Maple Street. Even though I didn't reach my goal of getting to downtown Lexington, I was happy to have gotten that far. I took a slightly alternative route and came across a basketball court where I  collected my wet self, tossed a couple shots, hydrated and finally ate that scone. I continued on back and prepped for the reception.  Here I met Bambi Brewer from Birdbrain Technologies.

####micro:bit

Wow, what a little thing the micro:bit is. I first heard of it the during the opening ceremony where Bambi Brewer showed me the Hummingbird Robot with microbit attachment. She also tipped me off that it would be a staple piece in future products from them. Being a big fan, I went up to the ticket counter to exchange the workshop ticket I had originally selected. It popped up again during the opening keynote in a demonstration about how it will integrate with Scratch 3.0. I found myself at a good table and I teamed up with Maureen Tumenas, she had a Chromebook with her and at the beta extension for our microbit did not support her machine. We chugged along and had a selection of projects to work on. We could make an activity tracker, a math story (not sure what that meant), a touch sensor, or we could do the lego challenge and build something with Legos that incorporated the micro:bit. We combined the projects and built a Lego activity tracker with touch sensors. It was a pleasant experience and the outcome was really satisfying. We were able to count  jumps and used the pins to add additional input methods to it. I was really happy with it and Maureen Tumenas was fun to team up with.

What I took most from this workshop was inspiration. During the event Maureen informed me that Microcenter was selling this at $10 but they usually retail for $15. While I have two Microcenters in close proximity back home , it didn't stop me from taking a trip to Microcenter during my time in the Boston area. I have been hooked on the little bugger since. In the first month since picking it up, there was but one day that I was not using it. I hope to incorperated the micro:bit into my work with the Library soon with Adults and Teens alike. Recently I have been designing a mixed materials enclosure for it similar to the enclosure I made for the Raspberry Pi Zero.

####Hummingbird

I've worked with hummingbirds in the past. I made a special request for them after being awarded a grant in YM. We wanted to make battle-bots out of these guys and we are not far from doing so! I didn't snag a ticket in time but Brandy had one and I am really grateful she gave me one during the opening ceremony. I went in to take any bit of information back, we used them lightly and some of the teens in the space struggled with them and it led us to doing workshop starting with the basic physics of circuits. It was a healthy deviation. During this workshop I made a wonderful friend in Vicky Luk, a primary school teacher from overseas. Later, I learned a lot about the policies and the school culture in her hometown. She comes from a background as an English Major but has found a new mainstay in Computer Science. We were tasked here with re creating a scene from where the wild things are. We use a servo and some LED's to close of the story. My reading cadence didn't match up, whoops. See [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBlN-Dt-m1g).

####Day 2 Keynote- Creativity is Subtraction

**[redacted]** It **[redacted]** was **[redacted]** great **[redacted]**. **[redacted]**

The rest

maybe one day...